Ok, I'll probably stop naming my journals by day in a little while. Overall, I feel I'm off to a decent start. Tuesday's are kicking my behind though because of being unavailable from 5-8pm for my daughter. Oh well, that's life! 
Other than that, I'm very impressed with the amount I understand. Today was all about databases and data modeling. Sumeet did a great job of clearing up some confusion I had about modules, inheritance and composition. I was totally under the impression that classes in their own files and modules were the same thing, especially when we start considering OOP uses of them. Now I see that the relationship isn't fixed between these two. A class COULD be a module, but modules are more about a set of behaviors or a collection of methods that all have a relationship. Sometimes (especially when you're new like I am) a class could contain methods that aren't efficiently related to one another. Sure, they may have things in common, but that doesn't mean they're related. 
The example from class was about cake, steak and salad. All can be eaten, and all are food. Does that mean the food class should contain eating behaviors? Probably not! Each food is eaten differently, and each food has it's own behaviors. It would be better to make eat it's own class. How do we eat it? With a knife? Eat it cold? Or maybe eat it hot? This is how a module works. It gives an object like cake a set of behaviors that can be modified on a case by case basis. I'm still hazy on this for now...
I also enjoyed the database lectures. I can see how databases change how we use our programs. I didn't get time to build any more databases, but luckily I have some exposure to them prior to OCS. Looking forward to using databases more tomorrow and learning how to use Ruby strings to interact with my own databases. 