Wow, day two is complete. I have a ton of questions. I feel I need much more time to figure out how to make Ruby do what I want it to do. Here are some issues I'm having: 

1) How do I create a loop that takes user input for name and amount, and stores it into an array that can be accessed by my classes through object instantiation?
[I know, that's a mouth full]

2) Why did we start with such a difficult problem set? I would have expected that we started with something like css and html, or maybe a full day of prep work review to get us up to speed. Why does the more difficult part of the course (learning how to build complex programs) start right away on day one? 

3) Scope is a really tricky thing. I'm trying to understand how scope works. If all of my variables and classes and objects were visible to my entire program, I would have a much easier time solving the problem (but then there would be amazingly large security holes!). I don't understand where and when I can use different objects, methods, classes, loops and arrays (for starters). For example: I can create an until loop and alter variables within it, but they are available "after" the loop is run. Ex: 

puts "Let me split the check for you..."
puts "How many people are in your group? "
member_Counter = gets.chomp.to_i
head_Count = member_Counter

until member_Counter == 0
member_names_and_amounts = []
puts "Name please: "
name = gets.chomp
puts "Meal amount for this person: "
dinner_Amount = gets.chomp
dinner_Amount = dinner_Amount.to_f
member_Counter -= 1
puts member_Counter

end

puts head_Count
puts member_Counter
puts name


This will run fine. Note, I have not yet done anything with the empty array. But although the variable "member_Counter" was altered inside the until loop, it still shows the updated value from the until loop, in the bottom-most puts statement. This doesn't make sense with other scope rules. For example: one rule of scope is that local variables are unavailable outside of a code block. So if I want to create an array in a method and use it elsewhere for example, I have to make it an attribute. But what if I want to pass an array into another method? Apparently, the only way to do so is with an attribute. So the problem I'm having is to determine how to create an array that accurately stores and keeps track of a persons name and the amounts they've spent over time, while still having array values be retrievable elsewhere. 

The only thing I can think of right now is to create a method for this operation, a method that lives inside of the same class. Still, I'm struggling with how to create a loop for each input variable of the array. The question is: if the array is only available inside of a method, how do I get the values of the users input into the array without losing the information after the loop has been performed?

I guess I'm trying to create a loop that asks each user for their name and the amount of their bill, and then store those values in a single array. It's not quite clear how to store more than one value in an instance variable's array. I'm very confused as to how to keep track of this. 

Here's what I think I need:
a) a counter-controlled loop to ask the user for name and amount until all the folks who went are to dinner have been accounted for (seems like i should put array in loop)
b) a way to store the name and amount in a way that keeps track of who spent what (seems like an array to me)
c) a way to then print all of that information 

If I can get these questions answered, I can probably move forward in the assignment. Until then, I'm stuck in a loop myself lol. 