What is something you've learned so far that you could probably teach (i.e. explain to a reasonable degree of completion) to an interested but unexperienced friend?

I have learned more in the last five days than I had learned my entired life prior to this class regarding computer programming. What I could teach now that I would have had no idea how to teach six days ago would be the concept of methods and classes as they relate to object oriented programming. 
OOP is all about reducing repeatable code, and prior to this class, not only could I not write any code proficiently, but I could not grasp what oop was. I could teach a friend how methods and classes in Ruby are the heart of OOP and the very basics of how to build things so that they are DRY. 

What is something you think others in the class understand much better than you. Be very, very specific. Even if you're feeling insecure and want to say, "Pretty much everything". Pick something specific.

I think some people understand how to use methods much more efficiently than I do. Some methods that sprouted up out of other people's code are .splice, .has_key?, .rotate. I will make an effort to use more methods so that I don't have to write as much code.

Describe one or two highlights from this week that have nothing to do with coding.

I faced some adversity this week when trying to explain how I understood certain aspects of writing programs. This ultimately was my communcation style and cultural differences. I must be very attentive to working with everyone. Relationships are very important to me and I would prefer to maintain good connections with everyone because you never know where that can lead. 